hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain basic properties of continuous time and discrete time systems
as we have already discussed the systems are also categorized as continuous time and discrete time
a continuous time system transforms a continuous time input signal into a continuous time output signal
a discrete time system transforms a discrete time input signal into a discrete time output signal
many real systems are built as the interconnections of several subsystems
these figures show some frequently used interconnections
figure a shows a series or cascade interconnection
figure b shows a parallel interconnection
figure c shows a series parallel interconnection
and the figure on the right hand side shows a feedback interconnection
let's move to the basic system properties
the first property is being memoryless
a system is said to be memoryless if its output at any given time depends only on the input at the same time
otherwise it is a system with memory
for instance in the given system the output y only depends on the input x at the same time so this system is memoryless
the second property is invertibility
a system is said to be invertible if distinct inputs lead to distinct outputs
if a system is invertible then any inverse system exists and if we cascade the inverse system to the original system
we obtain the same input signal
the figure shows this property
the third property is causality
a system is causal if the output at any time depends on values of the output at only the present and past times
for instance the first system given here is causal
however the second system the output depends on the future input
therefore it is not a causal system
note that all memoryless systems are causal
the fourth property is stability
a stable system in a stable system small inputs lead to responses that do not diverge
an easy way of analyzing the stability of a system is to check
if a bounded input results in a bounded output
if that is the case then the system is stable
an example stable system is given here
if the input x of t is bounded then the output y of t is also bounded
therefore the system is stable here
the fifth and one of the most important properties is the time invariance
informally a system is time invariant if the behavior and characteristics of the system are fixed over time
more formally we can define a time invariant system as follows
a system is time invariant if a time shift in the input signal results in an identical time shift in the output signal
assume that we have a system where y of t is the output when x of t is the input
the system is time invariant if y of t minus t zero is the output when x of t minus t zero is the input
the last and the other important system property is linearity
a system is linear if an input consists of the sum of several signals and the output is the superposition of the responses of the system to each of those inputs
more formally if a system is linear the given two properties must hold
the first one is the additivity property
and the second one is the scaling property
these two properties can be combined into a single statement known as the superposition property as given below
in this video I have explained basic system properties
among these properties time invariance and linearity have great importance because
most of the systems encountered in nature can be modeled as linear and time invariant
in the next videos we are going to analyze continuous time and discrete time linear time invariant systems in more detail
thank you